### What is Algorithmic Trading?
**Algorithmic trading**, also called *algo trading* and *blackbox trading* usually refers to trading systems that are heavily reliant on complictaed mathematical formulas and high-speed computer programs to determine trading strategies, opening and closing positions etc. These strategies use electronic platforms to enter trading orders with an algorithm which executes pre-programmed trading instructions incorporating a variety of variables such as timing, price, and volume. Algorithmic trading is widely used by investment banks, pension funds, mutual funds, hedge funds etc.
  Algorithmic trading may be used in any investment strategy or trading strategy, including market making, inter-market spreading, arbitrage. The investment decision and implementation may be augmented at any stage with algorithmic support or may operate completely automatically.

### Example - Geometric Brownian Motion
Possibly the most well known SDE in the world of finance is *geometric Brownian motion* (GBM). A GBM is a continuous-time stochastic process in which the logarithm of the randomly varying quantity follows a Brownian motion with drift. In mathematical finance it is used to model stock prices in the Black-Scholes model. GBM is consistent with at least the weak form of the *efficient market hypothesis* (EMH), an investment theory that states it is impossible to "beat the market" because stock market efficiency causes existing share prices to always incorporate and reflect all relevant information. According to the EMH, stocks always trade at their fair value on stock exchanges, making it impossible for investors to either purchase undervalued stocks or sell stocks for inflated prices. As such, it should be impossible to outperform the overall market through expert stock selection or market timing, and that the only way an investor can possibly obtain higher returns is by purchasing riskier investments.
